profiles/managed-auth/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about Managed Auth
---

## How does re-authentication work?

When you link credentials to a connection, Kernel monitors the session and re-authenticates automatically when it expires. Periodic health checks (default: every hour) detect logged-out sessions and trigger re-auth in the background, so the profile stays logged in without any action on your part.

<Warning>
Automatic re-authentication only works when credentials are complete and don't require human input. If login needs SMS/email OTP, push notifications, or manual MFA selection, you'll need to trigger a new login session manually.
</Warning>

## How do I know if a connection can auto-reauth?

Check the `can_reauth` field on a connection. This boolean tells you whether Kernel can automatically re-authenticate the connection when the session expires.

`can_reauth` is `true` when **all** of the following are met:

1. **Credential linked** — A credential is attached to the connection (stored in Kernel or via an external provider like [1Password](/integrations/1password))
2. **Login URL set** — The connection has a `login_url` (set automatically after the first successful login, or provided manually)
3. **Login flow learned** — At least one successful login has completed so Kernel has learned the login flow for the site
4. **No external action required** — The learned login flow doesn't require human intervention (see below)

### External actions that prevent auto-reauth

After a successful login, Kernel saves the login flow. If the flow includes steps that require human action—like SMS/email OTP, push notifications, or manual MFA selection—Kernel marks the connection as unable to auto-reauth because those steps can't be automated without user input.

If your login flow requires one of these, you can still automate around it:
- **Switch to TOTP** — If the site supports authenticator apps, add a `totp_secret` to your credential. TOTP codes are generated automatically, so the login flow won't require external action.
- **Trigger manual re-auth** — Start a new login session when `status` is `NEEDS_AUTH` and route the user through the [Hosted UI](/profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui) or [Programmatic](/profiles/managed-auth/programmatic) flow.

## How do I know if a connection needs authentication?

Check the connection's `status` field:

- `AUTHENTICATED` — Profile is logged in and ready to use
- `NEEDS_AUTH` — Profile needs authentication (auto-reauth failed or isn't possible)

If `status` is `NEEDS_AUTH`, start a new login session. This happens when auto-reauth fails (e.g., password changed), when credentials require human input, or when `can_reauth` is `false`.

## What authentication methods are supported?

Managed Auth supports username/password authentication and most SSO providers. 

<Warning>
Passkey-based authentication (e.g., Google accounts with passkeys enabled) is not currently supported. If a user's SSO provider requires a passkey, the login will fail.
</Warning>

## What happens if login fails?

If a login attempt fails, Kernel will retry with exponential backoff. After multiple failures, the [login flow](/profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui) will be marked as failed and you'll receive an error. Common failure reasons include:

- Invalid credentials
- Bot detection blocking the login page
- Captcha that couldn't be solved

## Can I use Managed Auth with any website?

Managed Auth works with any website. Sites with aggressive bot detection may require additional configuration (stealth mode, proxies). Passkeys and hardware security keys are not currently supported.

## How is Managed Auth billed?

Managed Auth is included on all paid plans with no per-connection fees. It uses browser sessions to log in and keep your sessions fresh—these count toward your browser usage like any other browser session.

Auth sessions are fast (typically 5-30 seconds each). Kernel monitors session health and re-authenticates automatically when sessions expire—most stay valid for days. For example, keeping 100 auth connections logged in typically costs less than $5/month in browser usage. See [Pricing & Limits](/info/pricing#managed-auth-billing) for details.

Commit message:

Enhance Managed Auth documentation by updating health check intervals and timeout details. Clarified billing information and session management in pricing section. Adjusted timeout settings in hosted UI and programmatic sections for consistency.

profiles/managed-auth/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: FAQ
description: Frequently asked questions about Managed Auth
---

## How does re-authentication work?

When you link credentials to a connection, Kernel monitors the session and re-authenticates automatically when it expires. Periodic health checks detect logged-out sessions and trigger re-auth in the background, so the profile stays logged in without any action on your part.

The default health check interval is 1 hour. You can configure a lower interval when creating a connection—the minimum depends on your plan:

| Plan | Minimum interval |
|------|-----------------|
| Hobbyist | 1 hour |
| Startup | 15 minutes |
| Enterprise | 5 minutes |

<Warning>
Automatic re-authentication only works when credentials are complete and don't require human input. If login needs SMS/email OTP, push notifications, or manual MFA selection, you'll need to trigger a new login session manually.
</Warning>

## How do I know if a connection can auto-reauth?

Check the `can_reauth` field on a connection. This boolean tells you whether Kernel can automatically re-authenticate the connection when the session expires.

`can_reauth` is `true` when **all** of the following are met:

1. **Credential linked** — A credential is attached to the connection (stored in Kernel or via an external provider like [1Password](/integrations/1password))
2. **Login URL set** — The connection has a `login_url` (set automatically after the first successful login, or provided manually)
3. **Login flow learned** — At least one successful login has completed so Kernel has learned the login flow for the site
4. **No external action required** — The learned login flow doesn't require human intervention (see below)

### External actions that prevent auto-reauth

After a successful login, Kernel saves the login flow. If the flow includes steps that require human action—like SMS/email OTP, push notifications, or manual MFA selection—Kernel marks the connection as unable to auto-reauth because those steps can't be automated without user input.

If your login flow requires one of these, you can still automate around it:
- **Switch to TOTP** — If the site supports authenticator apps, add a `totp_secret` to your credential. TOTP codes are generated automatically, so the login flow won't require external action.
- **Trigger manual re-auth** — Start a new login session when `status` is `NEEDS_AUTH` and route the user through the [Hosted UI](/profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui) or [Programmatic](/profiles/managed-auth/programmatic) flow.

## How do I know if a connection needs authentication?

Check the connection's `status` field:

- `AUTHENTICATED` — Profile is logged in and ready to use
- `NEEDS_AUTH` — Profile needs authentication (auto-reauth failed or isn't possible)

If `status` is `NEEDS_AUTH`, start a new login session. This happens when auto-reauth fails (e.g., password changed), when credentials require human input, or when `can_reauth` is `false`.

## What authentication methods are supported?

Managed Auth supports username/password authentication and most SSO providers. 

<Warning>
Passkey-based authentication (e.g., Google accounts with passkeys enabled) is not currently supported. If a user's SSO provider requires a passkey, the login will fail.
</Warning>

## What happens if login fails?

If a login attempt fails, Kernel will retry with exponential backoff. After multiple failures, the [login flow](/profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui) will be marked as failed and you'll receive an error. Common failure reasons include:

- Invalid credentials
- Bot detection blocking the login page
- Captcha that couldn't be solved

## Can I use Managed Auth with any website?

Managed Auth works with any website. Sites with aggressive bot detection may require additional configuration (stealth mode, proxies). Passkeys and hardware security keys are not currently supported.

## How is Managed Auth billed?

Managed Auth is included on all paid plans with no per-connection fees. It uses browser sessions to log in and keep your sessions fresh—these count toward your browser usage like any other browser session.

Auth sessions are fast (typically 5-30 seconds each). Kernel monitors session health and re-authenticates automatically when sessions expire—most stay valid for days. Lower health check intervals use more browser time, so keep that in mind when choosing an interval. See [Pricing & Limits](/info/pricing#managed-auth-billing) for details.
