profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui.mdx, before:

---
title: "Hosted UI"
description: "The simplest way to create authenticated browser sessions"
---

Collect credentials securely via Kernel's hosted page, then use the authenticated session in your automations. This is the recommended approach for most applications.

Use the Hosted UI when:
- You need users to provide their credentials
- You want the simplest integration with minimal code
- You want Kernel to handle 2FA and multi-step login flows

## Getting started

### 1. Create a Connection

A Managed Auth Connection links a profile to a domain you want to keep authenticated.

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'linkedin.com',
  profile_name: 'linkedin-profile',
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="linkedin.com",
    profile_name="linkedin-profile",
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### 2. Start a Login Session

Start a Managed Auth Session to get the hosted login URL.

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);
```

```python Python
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)
```
</CodeGroup>

### 3. Collect Credentials

Send the user to the hosted login page:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
window.location.href = login.hosted_url;
```

```python Python
# Return the URL to your frontend
print(f"Redirect to: {login.hosted_url}")
```
</CodeGroup>

The user will:
1. See the login page for the target website
2. Enter their credentials
3. Complete 2FA if needed

### 4. Poll for Completion

On your backend, poll until authentication completes:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);

while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}

if (state.status === 'AUTHENTICATED') {
  console.log('Authentication successful!');
}
```

```python Python
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if state.status == "AUTHENTICATED":
    print("Authentication successful!")
```
</CodeGroup>

<Info>
Poll no more than every 2 seconds. The session expires after 5 minutes if not completed.
</Info>

### 5. Use the Profile

Create browsers with the profile and navigate to the site. The browser session will already be authenticated:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const browser = await kernel.browsers.create({
  profile: { name: 'linkedin-profile' },
  stealth: true,
});

// Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
await page.goto('https://linkedin.com');
```

```python Python
browser = await kernel.browsers.create(
    profile={"name": "linkedin-profile"},
    stealth=True,
)

# Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
await page.goto("https://linkedin.com")
```
</CodeGroup>

<Info>
Managed Auth Connections are generated using Kernel's [stealth](/browsers/bot-detection/stealth) mode. Use `stealth: true` when creating authenticated browser sessions for the best experience.
</Info>


## Complete Example

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
import Kernel from '@onkernel/sdk';

const kernel = new Kernel();

// Create connection
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'doordash.com',
  profile_name: 'doordash-user-123',
});

// Start authentication
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);

// Send user to hosted page
console.log('Login URL:', login.hosted_url);

// Poll for completion
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}

if (state.status === 'AUTHENTICATED') {
  const browser = await kernel.browsers.create({
    profile: { name: 'doordash-user-123' },
    stealth: true,
  });
  
  // Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
  await page.goto('https://doordash.com');
}
```

```python Python
from kernel import Kernel
import asyncio

kernel = Kernel()

# Create connection
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="doordash.com",
    profile_name="doordash-user-123",
)

# Start authentication
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)

# Send user to hosted page
print(f"Login URL: {login.hosted_url}")

# Poll for completion
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)
while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if state.status == "AUTHENTICATED":
    browser = await kernel.browsers.create(
        profile={"name": "doordash-user-123"},
        stealth=True,
    )
    
    # Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
    await page.goto("https://doordash.com")
```
</CodeGroup>

## Adding Features

The basic flow above gets you started. Add these features as needed:

### Credentials and Auto-Reauth

Credentials are saved automatically on successful login, enabling automatic re-authentication when the session expires—no user interaction needed.

To opt out of credential saving, set `save_credentials: false` when creating the connection. See [Credentials](/profiles/credentials) for more on automated authentication.

### Custom Login URL

If the site's login page isn't at the default location, specify it when creating the connection:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'example.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  login_url: 'https://example.com/auth/signin',
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="example.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    login_url="https://example.com/auth/signin",
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### SSO/OAuth Support

Sites with "Sign in with Google/GitHub/Microsoft" are supported. The user completes the OAuth flow with the provider, and the authenticated session is automatically saved to the Kernel profile.

Make sure to add all of the OAuth provider's domains to `allowed_domains`:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'example.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  allowed_domains: ['accounts.google.com', 'google.com'],
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="example.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    allowed_domains=["accounts.google.com", "google.com"],
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### Post-Login URL

After successful authentication, `post_login_url` will be set to the page where the login landed. Use this start your automation from the right place:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const managedAuth = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);

if (managedAuth.post_login_url) {
  await page.goto(managedAuth.post_login_url);
  // Start automation from the dashboard/home page
}
```

```python Python
managed_auth = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if managed_auth.post_login_url:
    await page.goto(managed_auth.post_login_url)
    # Start automation from the dashboard/home page
```
</CodeGroup>

Commit message:

Clarify credential handling in documentation by specifying that credentials are updated after every successful login and that one-time codes (TOTP, SMS, etc.) are not saved. This change enhances the understanding of automatic re-authentication and credential management.

profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui.mdx, after:

---
title: "Hosted UI"
description: "The simplest way to create authenticated browser sessions"
---

Collect credentials securely via Kernel's hosted page, then use the authenticated session in your automations. This is the recommended approach for most applications.

Use the Hosted UI when:
- You need users to provide their credentials
- You want the simplest integration with minimal code
- You want Kernel to handle 2FA and multi-step login flows

## Getting started

### 1. Create a Connection

A Managed Auth Connection links a profile to a domain you want to keep authenticated.

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'linkedin.com',
  profile_name: 'linkedin-profile',
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="linkedin.com",
    profile_name="linkedin-profile",
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### 2. Start a Login Session

Start a Managed Auth Session to get the hosted login URL.

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);
```

```python Python
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)
```
</CodeGroup>

### 3. Collect Credentials

Send the user to the hosted login page:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
window.location.href = login.hosted_url;
```

```python Python
# Return the URL to your frontend
print(f"Redirect to: {login.hosted_url}")
```
</CodeGroup>

The user will:
1. See the login page for the target website
2. Enter their credentials
3. Complete 2FA if needed

### 4. Poll for Completion

On your backend, poll until authentication completes:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);

while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}

if (state.status === 'AUTHENTICATED') {
  console.log('Authentication successful!');
}
```

```python Python
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if state.status == "AUTHENTICATED":
    print("Authentication successful!")
```
</CodeGroup>

<Info>
Poll no more than every 2 seconds. The session expires after 5 minutes if not completed.
</Info>

### 5. Use the Profile

Create browsers with the profile and navigate to the site. The browser session will already be authenticated:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const browser = await kernel.browsers.create({
  profile: { name: 'linkedin-profile' },
  stealth: true,
});

// Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
await page.goto('https://linkedin.com');
```

```python Python
browser = await kernel.browsers.create(
    profile={"name": "linkedin-profile"},
    stealth=True,
)

# Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
await page.goto("https://linkedin.com")
```
</CodeGroup>

<Info>
Managed Auth Connections are generated using Kernel's [stealth](/browsers/bot-detection/stealth) mode. Use `stealth: true` when creating authenticated browser sessions for the best experience.
</Info>


## Complete Example

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
import Kernel from '@onkernel/sdk';

const kernel = new Kernel();

// Create connection
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'doordash.com',
  profile_name: 'doordash-user-123',
});

// Start authentication
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);

// Send user to hosted page
console.log('Login URL:', login.hosted_url);

// Poll for completion
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}

if (state.status === 'AUTHENTICATED') {
  const browser = await kernel.browsers.create({
    profile: { name: 'doordash-user-123' },
    stealth: true,
  });
  
  // Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
  await page.goto('https://doordash.com');
}
```

```python Python
from kernel import Kernel
import asyncio

kernel = Kernel()

# Create connection
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="doordash.com",
    profile_name="doordash-user-123",
)

# Start authentication
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)

# Send user to hosted page
print(f"Login URL: {login.hosted_url}")

# Poll for completion
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)
while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if state.status == "AUTHENTICATED":
    browser = await kernel.browsers.create(
        profile={"name": "doordash-user-123"},
        stealth=True,
    )
    
    # Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
    await page.goto("https://doordash.com")
```
</CodeGroup>

## Adding Features

The basic flow above gets you started. Add these features as needed:

### Credentials and Auto-Reauth

Credentials are saved after every successful login, enabling automatic re-authentication when the session expires. One-time codes (TOTP, SMS, etc.) are not saved.

To opt out of credential saving, set `save_credentials: false` when creating the connection. See [Credentials](/profiles/credentials) for more on automated authentication.

### Custom Login URL

If the site's login page isn't at the default location, specify it when creating the connection:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'example.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  login_url: 'https://example.com/auth/signin',
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="example.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    login_url="https://example.com/auth/signin",
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### SSO/OAuth Support

Sites with "Sign in with Google/GitHub/Microsoft" are supported. The user completes the OAuth flow with the provider, and the authenticated session is automatically saved to the Kernel profile.

Make sure to add all of the OAuth provider's domains to `allowed_domains`:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'example.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  allowed_domains: ['accounts.google.com', 'google.com'],
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="example.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    allowed_domains=["accounts.google.com", "google.com"],
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### Post-Login URL

After successful authentication, `post_login_url` will be set to the page where the login landed. Use this start your automation from the right place:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const managedAuth = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);

if (managedAuth.post_login_url) {
  await page.goto(managedAuth.post_login_url);
  // Start automation from the dashboard/home page
}
```

```python Python
managed_auth = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if managed_auth.post_login_url:
    await page.goto(managed_auth.post_login_url)
    # Start automation from the dashboard/home page
```
</CodeGroup>
