profiles/managed-auth/programmatic.mdx, before:

---
title: "Programmatic Flow"
description: "Build your own credential collection UI with full control"
---

Build your own credential collection UI instead of using the hosted page. Poll for login fields, then submit credentials via the API.

Use the Programmatic flow when:
- You need a custom credential collection UI that matches your app's design
- You're building headless/automated authentication
- You have credentials stored and want to authenticate without user interaction

## How It Works

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create Connection and Start Session">
    Same as [Hosted UI](/profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui)
  </Step>
  <Step title="Poll and Submit">
    Poll until `flow_step` becomes `AWAITING_INPUT`, then submit credentials
  </Step>
  <Step title="Handle 2FA">
    If more fields appear (2FA code), submit again—same loop handles it
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Getting started

### 1. Create a Connection

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'github.com',
  profile_name: 'github-profile',
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="github.com",
    profile_name="github-profile",
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### 2. Start a Login Session

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);
```

```python Python
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)
```
</CodeGroup>

To save credentials for automatic re-authentication:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id, {
  save_credential_as: 'my-saved-creds',
});
```

```python Python
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(
    auth.id,
    save_credential_as="my-saved-creds",
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### 3. Poll and Submit Credentials

A single loop handles everything—initial login, 2FA, and completion:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);

while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  // Submit when fields are ready (login or 2FA)
  if (state.flow_step === 'AWAITING_INPUT' && state.discovered_fields?.length) {
    const fieldValues = getCredentialsForFields(state.discovered_fields);
    await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, { fields: fieldValues });
  }
  
  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}

if (state.status === 'AUTHENTICATED') {
  console.log('Authentication successful!');
}
```

```python Python
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    # Submit when fields are ready (login or 2FA)
    if state.flow_step == "AWAITING_INPUT" and state.discovered_fields:
        field_values = get_credentials_for_fields(state.discovered_fields)
        await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, fields=field_values)
    
    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if state.status == "AUTHENTICATED":
    print("Authentication successful!")
```
</CodeGroup>

The `discovered_fields` array tells you what the login form needs:

```typescript
// Example discovered_fields for login
[{ name: 'username', type: 'text' }, { name: 'password', type: 'password' }]

// Example discovered_fields for 2FA
[{ name: 'otp', type: 'code' }]
```

## Complete Example

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
import Kernel from '@onkernel/sdk';

const kernel = new Kernel();

// Create connection
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'github.com',
  profile_name: 'github-profile',
});

const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);

// Single polling loop handles login + 2FA
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);

while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  if (state.flow_step === 'AWAITING_INPUT' && state.discovered_fields?.length) {
    // Check what fields are needed
    const fieldNames = state.discovered_fields.map(f => f.name);
    
    if (fieldNames.includes('username')) {
      // Initial login
      await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
        fields: { username: 'my-username', password: 'my-password' }
      });
    } else {
      // 2FA or additional fields
      const code = await promptUserForCode();
      await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
        fields: { [state.discovered_fields[0].name]: code }
      });
    }
  }

  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}

if (state.status === 'AUTHENTICATED') {
  console.log('Authentication successful!');
  
  const browser = await kernel.browsers.create({
    profile: { name: 'github-profile' },
    stealth: true,
  });
  
  // Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
  await page.goto('https://github.com');
}
```

```python Python
from kernel import Kernel
import asyncio

kernel = Kernel()

# Create connection
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="github.com",
    profile_name="github-profile",
)

login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)

# Single polling loop handles login + 2FA
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    if state.flow_step == "AWAITING_INPUT" and state.discovered_fields:
        # Check what fields are needed
        field_names = [f["name"] for f in state.discovered_fields]
        
        if "username" in field_names:
            # Initial login
            await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
                auth.id,
                fields={"username": "my-username", "password": "my-password"},
            )
        else:
            # 2FA or additional fields
            code = input("Enter code: ")
            await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
                auth.id,
                fields={state.discovered_fields[0]["name"]: code},
            )

    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if state.status == "AUTHENTICATED":
    print("Authentication successful!")
    
    browser = await kernel.browsers.create(
        profile={"name": "github-profile"},
        stealth=True,
    )
    
    # Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
    await page.goto("https://github.com")
```
</CodeGroup>

## Handling Different Input Types

The basic polling loop handles `discovered_fields`, but login pages can require other input types too.

### SSO Buttons

When the login page has "Sign in with Google/GitHub/Microsoft" buttons, they appear in `pending_sso_buttons`:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
if (state.pending_sso_buttons?.length) {
  // Show the user available SSO options
  for (const btn of state.pending_sso_buttons) {
    console.log(`${btn.provider}: ${btn.label}`);
  }
  
  // Submit the selected SSO button
  await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
    sso_button_selector: state.pending_sso_buttons[0].selector
  });
}
```

```python Python
if state.pending_sso_buttons:
    # Show the user available SSO options
    for btn in state.pending_sso_buttons:
        print(f"{btn['provider']}: {btn['label']}")
    
    # Submit the selected SSO button
    await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
        auth.id,
        sso_button_selector=state.pending_sso_buttons[0]["selector"],
    )
```
</CodeGroup>

<Info>
Remember to set `allowed_domains` on the connection to include the OAuth provider's domain (e.g., `accounts.google.com`).
</Info>

### MFA Selection

When the site offers multiple MFA methods, they appear in `mfa_options`:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
if (state.mfa_options?.length) {
  // Available types: sms, email, totp, push, call, security_key
  for (const opt of state.mfa_options) {
    console.log(`${opt.type}: ${opt.label}`);
  }
  
  // Submit the selected MFA method
  await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
    mfa_option_id: 'sms'
  });
}
```

```python Python
if state.mfa_options:
    # Available types: sms, email, totp, push, call, security_key
    for opt in state.mfa_options:
        print(f"{opt['type']}: {opt['label']}")
    
    # Submit the selected MFA method
    await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
        auth.id,
        mfa_option_id="sms",
    )
```
</CodeGroup>

After selecting an MFA method, the flow continues—poll for `discovered_fields` to submit the code, or handle external actions for push/security key.

### External Actions (Push, Security Key)

When the site requires an action outside the browser (push notification, security key tap), the step becomes `AWAITING_EXTERNAL_ACTION`:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
if (state.flow_step === 'AWAITING_EXTERNAL_ACTION') {
  // Show the message to the user
  console.log(state.external_action_message);
  // e.g., "Check your phone for a push notification"
  
  // Keep polling—the flow resumes automatically when the user completes the action
}
```

```python Python
if state.flow_step == "AWAITING_EXTERNAL_ACTION":
    # Show the message to the user
    print(state.external_action_message)
    # e.g., "Check your phone for a push notification"
    
    # Keep polling—the flow resumes automatically when the user completes the action
```
</CodeGroup>

## Step Reference

The `flow_step` field indicates what the flow is waiting for:

| Step | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `DISCOVERING` | Finding the login page and analyzing it |
| `AWAITING_INPUT` | Waiting for field values, SSO button click, or MFA selection |
| `SUBMITTING` | Processing submitted values |
| `AWAITING_EXTERNAL_ACTION` | Waiting for push approval, security key, etc. |
| `COMPLETED` | Flow has finished |

## Status Reference

The `flow_status` field indicates the current flow state:

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `IN_PROGRESS` | Authentication is ongoing—keep polling |
| `SUCCESS` | Login completed, profile saved |
| `FAILED` | Login failed (check `error_message`) |
| `EXPIRED` | Flow timed out (5 minutes) |
| `CANCELED` | Flow was canceled |

The `status` field indicates the overall connection state:

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `AUTHENTICATED` | Profile is logged in and ready to use |
| `NEEDS_AUTH` | Profile needs authentication |

## Real-Time Updates with SSE

For real-time UIs, you can stream login flow events via Server-Sent Events instead of polling:

```
GET /auth/connections/{id}/events
```

The stream delivers `managed_auth_state` events with the same fields as polling (`flow_status`, `flow_step`, `discovered_fields`, etc.) and terminates automatically when the flow reaches a terminal state.

<Note>
Polling is recommended for most integrations. SSE is useful when building real-time UIs that need instant updates without polling delays.
</Note>

Commit message:

Refactor credential handling in documentation to clarify automatic saving during login. Updated examples to remove `save_credential_as` parameter, emphasizing that credentials are saved by default. Added instructions for opting out of credential saving. Enhanced sections on auto-reauthentication across multiple files for consistency and clarity.

profiles/managed-auth/programmatic.mdx, after:

---
title: "Programmatic Flow"
description: "Build your own credential collection UI with full control"
---

Build your own credential collection UI instead of using the hosted page. Poll for login fields, then submit credentials via the API.

Use the Programmatic flow when:
- You need a custom credential collection UI that matches your app's design
- You're building headless/automated authentication
- You have credentials stored and want to authenticate without user interaction

## How It Works

<Steps>
  <Step title="Create Connection and Start Session">
    Same as [Hosted UI](/profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui)
  </Step>
  <Step title="Poll and Submit">
    Poll until `flow_step` becomes `AWAITING_INPUT`, then submit credentials
  </Step>
  <Step title="Handle 2FA">
    If more fields appear (2FA code), submit again—same loop handles it
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Getting started

### 1. Create a Connection

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'github.com',
  profile_name: 'github-profile',
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="github.com",
    profile_name="github-profile",
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### 2. Start a Login Session

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);
```

```python Python
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)
```
</CodeGroup>

Credentials are saved automatically on successful login, enabling automatic re-authentication when the session expires.

### 3. Poll and Submit Credentials

A single loop handles everything—initial login, 2FA, and completion:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);

while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  // Submit when fields are ready (login or 2FA)
  if (state.flow_step === 'AWAITING_INPUT' && state.discovered_fields?.length) {
    const fieldValues = getCredentialsForFields(state.discovered_fields);
    await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, { fields: fieldValues });
  }
  
  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}

if (state.status === 'AUTHENTICATED') {
  console.log('Authentication successful!');
}
```

```python Python
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    # Submit when fields are ready (login or 2FA)
    if state.flow_step == "AWAITING_INPUT" and state.discovered_fields:
        field_values = get_credentials_for_fields(state.discovered_fields)
        await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, fields=field_values)
    
    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if state.status == "AUTHENTICATED":
    print("Authentication successful!")
```
</CodeGroup>

The `discovered_fields` array tells you what the login form needs:

```typescript
// Example discovered_fields for login
[{ name: 'username', type: 'text' }, { name: 'password', type: 'password' }]

// Example discovered_fields for 2FA
[{ name: 'otp', type: 'code' }]
```

## Complete Example

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
import Kernel from '@onkernel/sdk';

const kernel = new Kernel();

// Create connection
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'github.com',
  profile_name: 'github-profile',
});

const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);

// Single polling loop handles login + 2FA
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);

while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  if (state.flow_step === 'AWAITING_INPUT' && state.discovered_fields?.length) {
    // Check what fields are needed
    const fieldNames = state.discovered_fields.map(f => f.name);
    
    if (fieldNames.includes('username')) {
      // Initial login
      await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
        fields: { username: 'my-username', password: 'my-password' }
      });
    } else {
      // 2FA or additional fields
      const code = await promptUserForCode();
      await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
        fields: { [state.discovered_fields[0].name]: code }
      });
    }
  }

  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}

if (state.status === 'AUTHENTICATED') {
  console.log('Authentication successful!');
  
  const browser = await kernel.browsers.create({
    profile: { name: 'github-profile' },
    stealth: true,
  });
  
  // Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
  await page.goto('https://github.com');
}
```

```python Python
from kernel import Kernel
import asyncio

kernel = Kernel()

# Create connection
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="github.com",
    profile_name="github-profile",
)

login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)

# Single polling loop handles login + 2FA
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    if state.flow_step == "AWAITING_INPUT" and state.discovered_fields:
        # Check what fields are needed
        field_names = [f["name"] for f in state.discovered_fields]
        
        if "username" in field_names:
            # Initial login
            await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
                auth.id,
                fields={"username": "my-username", "password": "my-password"},
            )
        else:
            # 2FA or additional fields
            code = input("Enter code: ")
            await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
                auth.id,
                fields={state.discovered_fields[0]["name"]: code},
            )

    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)

if state.status == "AUTHENTICATED":
    print("Authentication successful!")
    
    browser = await kernel.browsers.create(
        profile={"name": "github-profile"},
        stealth=True,
    )
    
    # Navigate to the site—you're already logged in
    await page.goto("https://github.com")
```
</CodeGroup>

## Handling Different Input Types

The basic polling loop handles `discovered_fields`, but login pages can require other input types too.

### SSO Buttons

When the login page has "Sign in with Google/GitHub/Microsoft" buttons, they appear in `pending_sso_buttons`:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
if (state.pending_sso_buttons?.length) {
  // Show the user available SSO options
  for (const btn of state.pending_sso_buttons) {
    console.log(`${btn.provider}: ${btn.label}`);
  }
  
  // Submit the selected SSO button
  await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
    sso_button_selector: state.pending_sso_buttons[0].selector
  });
}
```

```python Python
if state.pending_sso_buttons:
    # Show the user available SSO options
    for btn in state.pending_sso_buttons:
        print(f"{btn['provider']}: {btn['label']}")
    
    # Submit the selected SSO button
    await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
        auth.id,
        sso_button_selector=state.pending_sso_buttons[0]["selector"],
    )
```
</CodeGroup>

<Info>
Remember to set `allowed_domains` on the connection to include the OAuth provider's domain (e.g., `accounts.google.com`).
</Info>

### MFA Selection

When the site offers multiple MFA methods, they appear in `mfa_options`:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
if (state.mfa_options?.length) {
  // Available types: sms, email, totp, push, call, security_key
  for (const opt of state.mfa_options) {
    console.log(`${opt.type}: ${opt.label}`);
  }
  
  // Submit the selected MFA method
  await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
    mfa_option_id: 'sms'
  });
}
```

```python Python
if state.mfa_options:
    # Available types: sms, email, totp, push, call, security_key
    for opt in state.mfa_options:
        print(f"{opt['type']}: {opt['label']}")
    
    # Submit the selected MFA method
    await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
        auth.id,
        mfa_option_id="sms",
    )
```
</CodeGroup>

After selecting an MFA method, the flow continues—poll for `discovered_fields` to submit the code, or handle external actions for push/security key.

### External Actions (Push, Security Key)

When the site requires an action outside the browser (push notification, security key tap), the step becomes `AWAITING_EXTERNAL_ACTION`:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
if (state.flow_step === 'AWAITING_EXTERNAL_ACTION') {
  // Show the message to the user
  console.log(state.external_action_message);
  // e.g., "Check your phone for a push notification"
  
  // Keep polling—the flow resumes automatically when the user completes the action
}
```

```python Python
if state.flow_step == "AWAITING_EXTERNAL_ACTION":
    # Show the message to the user
    print(state.external_action_message)
    # e.g., "Check your phone for a push notification"
    
    # Keep polling—the flow resumes automatically when the user completes the action
```
</CodeGroup>

## Step Reference

The `flow_step` field indicates what the flow is waiting for:

| Step | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `DISCOVERING` | Finding the login page and analyzing it |
| `AWAITING_INPUT` | Waiting for field values, SSO button click, or MFA selection |
| `SUBMITTING` | Processing submitted values |
| `AWAITING_EXTERNAL_ACTION` | Waiting for push approval, security key, etc. |
| `COMPLETED` | Flow has finished |

## Status Reference

The `flow_status` field indicates the current flow state:

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `IN_PROGRESS` | Authentication is ongoing—keep polling |
| `SUCCESS` | Login completed, profile saved |
| `FAILED` | Login failed (check `error_message`) |
| `EXPIRED` | Flow timed out (5 minutes) |
| `CANCELED` | Flow was canceled |

The `status` field indicates the overall connection state:

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `AUTHENTICATED` | Profile is logged in and ready to use |
| `NEEDS_AUTH` | Profile needs authentication |

## Real-Time Updates with SSE

For real-time UIs, you can stream login flow events via Server-Sent Events instead of polling:

```
GET /auth/connections/{id}/events
```

The stream delivers `managed_auth_state` events with the same fields as polling (`flow_status`, `flow_step`, `discovered_fields`, etc.) and terminates automatically when the flow reaches a terminal state.

<Note>
Polling is recommended for most integrations. SSE is useful when building real-time UIs that need instant updates without polling delays.
</Note>
