profiles/credentials.mdx, before:

---
title: "Credentials"
description: "Automate authentication with stored credentials"
---

Credentials allow you to store login information securely and enable Kernel's automated re-authentication without requiring user interaction.

**There are three ways to provide credentials:**
- **Automatically save during login** — Capture credentials directly from the user when they log in via [Hosted UI](/profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui) or [Programmatic](/profiles/managed-auth/programmatic)
- **Pre-store in Kernel** — Create credentials before any login for fully headless automation
- **Connect 1Password** — Use credentials from your existing 1Password vaults

<Card title="1Password Integration" icon="key" href="/integrations/1password">
  Connect your 1Password vaults to automatically use existing credentials with Managed Auth. Credentials are automatically matched by domain.
</Card>

## Save credentials during login

By default, credentials entered during login are automatically saved for re-authentication. No extra parameters are needed:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);
```

```python Python
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)
```
</CodeGroup>

Once saved, the profile stays authenticated automatically. When the session expires, Kernel re-authenticates using the stored credentials.

To opt out of credential saving, set `save_credentials: false` when creating the connection:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'example.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  save_credentials: false,
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="example.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    save_credentials=False,
)
```
</CodeGroup>

## Pre-store credentials

For fully automated flows where no user is involved, create credentials upfront:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const credential = await kernel.credentials.create({
  name: 'my-netflix-login',
  domain: 'netflix.com',
  values: {
    email: 'user@netflix.com',
    password: 'secretpassword123',
  },
});
```

```python Python
credential = await kernel.credentials.create(
    name="my-netflix-login",
    domain="netflix.com",
    values={
        "email": "user@netflix.com",
        "password": "secretpassword123",
    },
)
```
</CodeGroup>

Then link the credential when creating a connection:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'netflix.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  credential: { name: credential.name },
});

// Start login - authenticates automatically using stored credentials
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="netflix.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    credential={"name": credential.name},
)

# Start login - authenticates automatically using stored credentials
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)
```
</CodeGroup>

### 2FA with TOTP

For sites with authenticator app 2FA, include `totp_secret` to fully automate login:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const credential = await kernel.credentials.create({
  name: 'my-login',
  domain: 'github.com',
  values: {
    username: 'my-username',
    password: 'my-password',
  },
  totp_secret: 'JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP',  // From authenticator app setup
});
```

```python Python
credential = await kernel.credentials.create(
    name="my-login",
    domain="github.com",
    values={
        "username": "my-username",
        "password": "my-password",
    },
    totp_secret="JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP",  # From authenticator app setup
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### SSO / OAuth

For sites with "Sign in with Google/GitHub/Microsoft", set `sso_provider` and include the OAuth provider's domains in `allowed_domains`.

The workflow automatically clicks the matching SSO button and completes OAuth:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const credential = await kernel.credentials.create({
  name: 'my-google-login',
  domain: 'accounts.google.com',
  sso_provider: 'google',
  values: {
    email: 'user@gmail.com',
    password: 'password',
  },
});

const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'target-site.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  credential: { name: credential.name },
  allowed_domains: ['accounts.google.com', 'google.com'],
});
```

```python Python
credential = await kernel.credentials.create(
    name="my-google-login",
    domain="accounts.google.com",
    sso_provider="google",
    values={
        "email": "user@gmail.com",
        "password": "password",
    },
)

auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="target-site.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    credential={"name": credential.name},
    allowed_domains=["accounts.google.com", "google.com"],
)
```
</CodeGroup>

## Partial Credentials

Credentials don't need to contain every field required by the login form. You can store what you have and collect the necessary fields from the user. `auth.connections.login()` pauses for missing values.

As an example, the below credential has email + TOTP secret stored (and automatically handled), but no password. The password is dynamically collected from the user using Kernel's Hosted UI or your Programmatic flow:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const credential = await kernel.credentials.create({
  name: 'my-login',
  domain: 'example.com',
  values: { email: 'user@example.com' },  // No password
  totp_secret: 'JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP',
});

const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'example.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  credential: { name: credential.name },
});

const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);

// Poll until password is needed
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  if (state.flow_step === 'AWAITING_INPUT' && state.discovered_fields?.length) {
    // Only password field will be pending (email auto-filled from credential)
    await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
      fields: { password: 'user-provided-password' }
    });
  }
  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}
// TOTP auto-submitted from credential → SUCCESS
```

```python Python
credential = await kernel.credentials.create(
    name="my-login",
    domain="example.com",
    values={"email": "user@example.com"},  # No password
    totp_secret="JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP",
)

auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="example.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    credential={"name": credential.name},
)

login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)

# Poll until password is needed
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)
while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    if state.flow_step == "AWAITING_INPUT" and state.discovered_fields:
        # Only password field will be pending (email auto-filled from credential)
        await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
            auth.id,
            fields={"password": "user-provided-password"},
        )
    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)
# TOTP auto-submitted from credential → SUCCESS
```
</CodeGroup>

This is useful when you want to:
- Store TOTP secrets but have users enter their password each time
- Pre-fill username/email but collect password at runtime
- Merge user-provided values into an existing credential automatically on successful login

## Security

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Encrypted at rest** | Values encrypted using per-organization keys |
| **Write-only** | Values cannot be retrieved via API after creation |
| **Never logged** | Values are never written to logs |
| **Never shared** | Values are never passed to LLMs |
| **Isolated execution** | Authentication runs in isolated browser environments |

## Notes

- The `values` object is flexible and can be used to store whatever fields the login form needs (`email`, `username`, `company_id`, etc.)
- Deleting a credential unlinks it from associated connections so they can no longer auto-authenticate
- Use one credential per account. We recommend creating separate credentials for different user accounts

Commit message:

Clarify credential handling in documentation by specifying that credentials are updated after every successful login and that one-time codes (TOTP, SMS, etc.) are not saved. This change enhances the understanding of automatic re-authentication and credential management.

profiles/credentials.mdx, after:

---
title: "Credentials"
description: "Automate authentication with stored credentials"
---

Credentials allow you to store login information securely and enable Kernel's automated re-authentication without requiring user interaction.

**There are three ways to provide credentials:**
- **Automatically save during login** — Capture credentials directly from the user when they log in via [Hosted UI](/profiles/managed-auth/hosted-ui) or [Programmatic](/profiles/managed-auth/programmatic)
- **Pre-store in Kernel** — Create credentials before any login for fully headless automation
- **Connect 1Password** — Use credentials from your existing 1Password vaults

<Card title="1Password Integration" icon="key" href="/integrations/1password">
  Connect your 1Password vaults to automatically use existing credentials with Managed Auth. Credentials are automatically matched by domain.
</Card>

## Save credentials during login

By default, credentials entered during login are automatically saved for re-authentication. No extra parameters are needed:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);
```

```python Python
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)
```
</CodeGroup>

Once saved, the profile stays authenticated automatically. When the session expires, Kernel re-authenticates using the stored credentials. Credentials are updated after every successful login. One-time codes (TOTP, SMS, etc.) are not saved.

To opt out of credential saving, set `save_credentials: false` when creating the connection:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'example.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  save_credentials: false,
});
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="example.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    save_credentials=False,
)
```
</CodeGroup>

## Pre-store credentials

For fully automated flows where no user is involved, create credentials upfront:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const credential = await kernel.credentials.create({
  name: 'my-netflix-login',
  domain: 'netflix.com',
  values: {
    email: 'user@netflix.com',
    password: 'secretpassword123',
  },
});
```

```python Python
credential = await kernel.credentials.create(
    name="my-netflix-login",
    domain="netflix.com",
    values={
        "email": "user@netflix.com",
        "password": "secretpassword123",
    },
)
```
</CodeGroup>

Then link the credential when creating a connection:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'netflix.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  credential: { name: credential.name },
});

// Start login - authenticates automatically using stored credentials
const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);
```

```python Python
auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="netflix.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    credential={"name": credential.name},
)

# Start login - authenticates automatically using stored credentials
login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)
```
</CodeGroup>

### 2FA with TOTP

For sites with authenticator app 2FA, include `totp_secret` to fully automate login:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const credential = await kernel.credentials.create({
  name: 'my-login',
  domain: 'github.com',
  values: {
    username: 'my-username',
    password: 'my-password',
  },
  totp_secret: 'JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP',  // From authenticator app setup
});
```

```python Python
credential = await kernel.credentials.create(
    name="my-login",
    domain="github.com",
    values={
        "username": "my-username",
        "password": "my-password",
    },
    totp_secret="JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP",  # From authenticator app setup
)
```
</CodeGroup>

### SSO / OAuth

For sites with "Sign in with Google/GitHub/Microsoft", set `sso_provider` and include the OAuth provider's domains in `allowed_domains`.

The workflow automatically clicks the matching SSO button and completes OAuth:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const credential = await kernel.credentials.create({
  name: 'my-google-login',
  domain: 'accounts.google.com',
  sso_provider: 'google',
  values: {
    email: 'user@gmail.com',
    password: 'password',
  },
});

const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'target-site.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  credential: { name: credential.name },
  allowed_domains: ['accounts.google.com', 'google.com'],
});
```

```python Python
credential = await kernel.credentials.create(
    name="my-google-login",
    domain="accounts.google.com",
    sso_provider="google",
    values={
        "email": "user@gmail.com",
        "password": "password",
    },
)

auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="target-site.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    credential={"name": credential.name},
    allowed_domains=["accounts.google.com", "google.com"],
)
```
</CodeGroup>

## Partial Credentials

Credentials don't need to contain every field required by the login form. You can store what you have and collect the necessary fields from the user. `auth.connections.login()` pauses for missing values.

As an example, the below credential has email + TOTP secret stored (and automatically handled), but no password. The password is dynamically collected from the user using Kernel's Hosted UI or your Programmatic flow:

<CodeGroup>
```typescript TypeScript
const credential = await kernel.credentials.create({
  name: 'my-login',
  domain: 'example.com',
  values: { email: 'user@example.com' },  // No password
  totp_secret: 'JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP',
});

const auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create({
  domain: 'example.com',
  profile_name: 'my-profile',
  credential: { name: credential.name },
});

const login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id);

// Poll until password is needed
let state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
while (state.flow_status === 'IN_PROGRESS') {
  if (state.flow_step === 'AWAITING_INPUT' && state.discovered_fields?.length) {
    // Only password field will be pending (email auto-filled from credential)
    await kernel.auth.connections.submit(auth.id, {
      fields: { password: 'user-provided-password' }
    });
  }
  await new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, 2000));
  state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id);
}
// TOTP auto-submitted from credential → SUCCESS
```

```python Python
credential = await kernel.credentials.create(
    name="my-login",
    domain="example.com",
    values={"email": "user@example.com"},  # No password
    totp_secret="JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP",
)

auth = await kernel.auth.connections.create(
    domain="example.com",
    profile_name="my-profile",
    credential={"name": credential.name},
)

login = await kernel.auth.connections.login(auth.id)

# Poll until password is needed
state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)
while state.flow_status == "IN_PROGRESS":
    if state.flow_step == "AWAITING_INPUT" and state.discovered_fields:
        # Only password field will be pending (email auto-filled from credential)
        await kernel.auth.connections.submit(
            auth.id,
            fields={"password": "user-provided-password"},
        )
    await asyncio.sleep(2)
    state = await kernel.auth.connections.retrieve(auth.id)
# TOTP auto-submitted from credential → SUCCESS
```
</CodeGroup>

This is useful when you want to:
- Store TOTP secrets but have users enter their password each time
- Pre-fill username/email but collect password at runtime
- Merge user-provided values into an existing credential automatically on successful login

## Security

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Encrypted at rest** | Values encrypted using per-organization keys |
| **Write-only** | Values cannot be retrieved via API after creation |
| **Never logged** | Values are never written to logs |
| **Never shared** | Values are never passed to LLMs |
| **Isolated execution** | Authentication runs in isolated browser environments |

## Notes

- The `values` object is flexible and can be used to store whatever fields the login form needs (`email`, `username`, `company_id`, etc.)
- Deleting a credential unlinks it from associated connections so they can no longer auto-authenticate
- Use one credential per account. We recommend creating separate credentials for different user accounts
